{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17940\viewh11140\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Tasks\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \
\cf3 Blue:\cf2  things\
\cf4 Red:\cf2  actions\
\

\fs36 1) Outline
\fs24 \

\fs28 You are to implement a prototype of program allowing people to play a version of the board game Cluedo on a desktop computer. If you have not heard of the game Cluedo before, don\'92t worry, a specification detailing what you need to do is provided and you may always consult the game manual or the Wikipedia description of Cluedo.\
\
You will design a solution using CRC cards and UML, and implement a solution using Java. Feel free to use the Umple tool for designing models and generating code. You may fully stay within Umple, or depart from the original Umple ethos of never editing the generated code by instead using the generated code as a starting point for your implementation.\
\
Hint: If letting Umple assist you for the implementation part appeals to you, note that you will have to develop a deeper acquaintance with Umple than Lab 1 was designed to achieve.\

\fs24 \

\fs36 2) Specification
\fs24 \

\fs28 What follows is a specification for a simplified version of Cluedo. Please bear this in mind whenever referring to the original manual or other sources. True to life, the specification may be incomplete or ambiguous in parts and in such cases you will have to make reasonable assumptions which you should then explicitly state in the assignment report.\

\fs24 \

\fs36 2.1) Objective\

\fs28 The game is a murder mystery played by three to six players who move around a board comprising nine rooms. The aim is to deduce the murder circumstances, i.e., who the murderer was, what weapon they used and in which room they committed the murder. The Cluedo board consists of nine rooms laid out in a circular fashion. The centre space (the \'93Cellar\'94) is inaccessible to players.\

\fs24 \

\fs36 2.2) Board\

\fs28 The board is divided into a grid of 24x25 squares of which some are not accessible and some (those within rooms) may optionally be treated as a single location.\
\
Players move on this grid and the prototype does not need to honour the fact that rooms are technically not divided by grid cells in the original game. The prototype furthermore does not need to account for the \'93secret passages\'94 (stairwell connections which connect rooms in opposite corners).\
\
There are six starting squares located at the perimeter of the board. Each starting square indicates which character starts at that position.\

\fs24 \

\fs36 2.3) Characters\

\fs28 There are six characters, one of which (randomly selected for each game play) is the murderer: \'95 Miss Scarlett \'95 Colonel Mustard \'95 Mrs. White \'95 Mr. Green \'95 Mrs. Peacock \'95 Professor Plum.\
\
Each player assumes the role of one of these characters. If there are less than six players, some of the characters will be unused.\

\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 2.4) Weapons\

\fs28 There are six weapons in the game, one of which is the murder weapon: \'95 Candlestick \'95 Dagger \'95 Lead Pipe \'95 Revolver \'95 Rope \'95 Spanner \
\
Each weapon is initially placed in a room chosen at random, such that no two weapons are in the same room.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 2.5) Rules\

\fs28 Every character, weapon and room is represented by a card in the game. Before the game starts, one character, one weapon, and one room card are blindly selected at random. This selection represents the murder circumstances, i.e., the \'93solution\'94 that players need to figure out during game play. The respective cards go into an envelope to be hidden from view.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The remaining weapon, room and character cards are then combined into one stack, shuffled and then dealt facedown evenly to players. Some players may end up with more cards than others. Players then take it in turns to roll two dice and move their character token a corresponding number (sum of the dice values) of squares. Diagonal movement is not allowed and no space may be used twice during one turn. When a player enters a room, they do not need to use any remaining moves they have left. They may then hypothesise about the murder circumstances by making a suggestion which comprises the room they are in, a character and a weapon. If the character and weapon named in the suggestion are not in that room yet, they are now moved into the room.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 When a suggestion is made, each player, in a clockwise fashion, starting from the current player, attempts to refute the suggestion. A suggestion is refuted by producing a card that matches one of the named murder circumstances (as such a card cannot be in the solution envelope). A refutation card is only shown to the player that made the suggestion. If a player has multiple refutation cards, it is their choice which one they pick. If no player can produce a refutation, the named murder circumstances are a potential solution candidate that may or may not be used to make an accusation later on (by any player).\
\
An accusation comprises a character, a weapon, and a room (which can be any room, not just the one the player making the accusation may be in). If the accusation made by a player exactly matches the actual murder circumstances (only the accusing player is allowed to see the solution) the player wins, otherwise the player is excluded from making further suggestions or accusations. This means the player will continue to refute suggestions by others but cannot win the game anymore.\
\

\fs36 2.6) User interface\

\fs28 Implement an object-oriented program for playing the Cluedo game. The game interface should be simple and must be text-based. Only text-based input and output is permitted, i.e., all input/output must occur via System.in and System.out.\
\
1. The program begins by asking how many players wish to participate.\
\
2. At the start of each turn, the program rolls the two dice to determine the move distance of the player who\'92s turn it is by using the sum of the dice values. The current player then moves their token to a desired spot on the grid.\
\
3. Once a player has moved, they are presented with the option of making a suggestion or an accusation. All rules of the games must be enforced at all times, e.g., only suggestions that involve the room the current player is in, should be permitted.\
\
4. The program then repeats steps 2\'964 for the next player, unless a player has won or all players have been eliminated from making accusations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}